Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans : a set of commands , instructions ,and other syntax to create a software program.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
a.jre-java runtime environment ,
( b).an interpreter/loader(java)-converting high level programing language to machine
c) compiler(javac)-translates the human-readable code to a language a computer processor understands.
d)an archiver(jar)-a package file format.
e)a documentation generator(javadoc)-it is used for generating java code documentation HTML format from java source
code like /** doc */ .


What is IDE?
integrated development environment ia a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug
programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse ,netBeans,intellij ,Bluej,jDeveloper,Greenfoot,jGRASP,jCreator.
Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?
a class is blueprint or template for creating object.
What is object?
an object is an instance(result) of class.
What is the entry point of an application?
main() method is the entry point of an application.
Why main is static?
compiler can call it without creating object.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
java.lang is the superclass of all classes.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system.OS will look in this path for executables.
classpath is nothing but setting up the environment for java.java will use to find compiled classess.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
abstract class have abstract and non-abstract but interface have only abstract.
abstract doesn't support multiple inheritance but interface does.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
no we can't create an object.reference variable is uded to refer to the object of the class.
what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier help us to restrict the visibility of a package,class,methods and othe data members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
object oriented programming is a programming that relies on the concept of classes and objects.
a.polymorphism-having many form or behavior example method overloading ,method overriding.
b.abstraction-showing only the functionality and hiding implementation example ATM machine , text massage.
c.Encapsulation-data hiding.
d.inheritance-one class acquires the properties(data member) and functionalities(methods) of another class is
called inheritance.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
package is group related classes.java.lang package.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
application programming interface which is a software intermediary that allows two application to talk to
each other. sql
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
java does not support multiple inheritance.class B extends class A and C both class have same method display().
now java compiler can not decide which display() method it should call.to prevent such a situation multiple
inheritance not allowed in java.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
same method name different parameter.it have when method name same and different parameter.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
an exception is a problem which occurs during the execution of the programs.
java exception handling is managed via five keywords  try...catch ,throw ,throws and finally.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
when u use static keyword in java u can call method without creating any object.
the static variable can be used to refer to the common property of all object.example company name employees.
a static method can be invoked without creating any instance of class.a static method belongs to the class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final is a keyword in java used to apply restrictions on class ,method,and variables.
final variables are nothing but constant.we can not changed the value of final variable once it
is initialized....final method can not be overridden which means even though a sub class can call the final method
of parent class without any issue.
What is final, finally and finalize?
final- is keyword used to restrictions the class,method,and variable.can't be inherited and overridden.
finally-is a block .it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
finalize-is a method used to clean up processing.
What is a constructor ?
constructor is a special type of method which used to initialize the newly created object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
class
What is "this" keyword in java ?
this keyword refers to the current class object in a method or constructor.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super keyword refer to the object of immediate parent class.
a.it is used to call super class instance var.
b.it is used to call super class method(overridden method)
c.it is used to call super class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
java virtual machine
Is JVM platform independent?
no
What version of java are you using?
java 8
What is JAR stand for ?
java ARChive.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
jdk is a software development environment used for making java application.jdk help to code and run java programs.
jvm is a machine that provides a runtime environment to drive the java code or application.its converts java byte
codes into machine language.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
jvm is a engine that's provides a run time environment.its converts java bytecodes into machine language.
jre is a piece of software which is designed to run other software.it contains the class libraries,loader
class and jvm.the full form of jre is java runtime environment.
What is compile time and run time?
compile time-source code is converted into an executable code.
runtime-executable code is start running.
What is heap?
heap space in java used for dynamic memory allocation for java object and jre classes at the run time.
How java manage it's memory?
java uses an automatic memory management systems called a garbage collector.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String-in general ,String is a sequence of characters but in java String is an object which represent a
sequence of characters.
StringBuffer-java StringBuffer class is used to create mutable(modifiable) string.its thread safe.
StringBuilder-its mutable and non-synchronized.
What is Singleton class?
singleton class is a class where only one object created.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byteStream.
serialization---object-->byteStream----->database-->file-->memory
deserialization-the byteStream is used to recreate the actual java object in memory.
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loop check condition before iteration of the loop.
do-while loop check condition after the execution of the statement inside the loop.
What is Enum?
enum is a special class that represent a group of constants like "final " variables.

What is Iterator?
iterator is an object used to loop through collection like arraylist and hashset.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
once string object are created its data or state can't be changed but a new string or object created.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
calling a constructor from the another constructor of same class is known as constructor channing.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
just in time compilation
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
heap space in java is used for dynamic memory allocation for java object and jre classes at the run time.
garbage collection is java programs perform automatic memory management.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
no it does not.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
the major difference between two is stack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables.
heap memory store the object and dynamic memory allocation.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
reflection is an API used to modify the behavior of methods ,classes and interfaces at runtime.
by reflecting we can grow and develop our understanding more deeply,so that our work continues to improve the
next time we roll through the design process.
what is multithreading in java?
is a process of execution two or more thread simultaneously to maximum utilization of CPU.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
 synchronization is fundamental for programs that use multiple threads.
What is Framework?
is a platform for developing software application.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
selenium ,testNG ,cucumber ,junit
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
testNG is very similar to junit  but few more functionalities added to it that makes testNG more powerful
than junit.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
when one object dependence on other object its called dependencies injection.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
its happened at compile time ,method overloding is a example.
dynamic binding-binding happen at runtime,method overriding is an example.